thanks why didn't have to be
snakes because they're awesome
hey guys Julia here for dnews
well some people are absolutely
terrified of snakes I actually
really love them they're some of
the most fascinating animals on
this planet
I mean just how did they get
about without any legs well to
answer that we first have to
understand a little bit more
about their evolutionary history
snakes appear on almost every
continent in almost every
country except famously Ireland
a study published in the Journal
of vertebrate paleontology found
that stinks probably evolved
from a four-legged lizard which
another study suggests happens
sometimes during the Jurassic
period around a hundred fifty
million years ago researchers
believe that they probably lost
their legs to adapt to moving in
narrow underground burrows it's
not that leg simply got in the
way
recently the journal Science
Foundation so-called missing
link between lizards and snakes
tetrapod office and lectus hails
from what's now South America
and lived during the Cretaceous
period
these creatures are supposed to
be distant cousins of what we
know to be snakes they had a
long body a small tail and for
little limbs that were used for
grasping prey to this day you
can actually still see best
digital leg bones and some
steaks like pay phones and boa
constrictors without legs makes
evolved a few clever ways to
move a study published in the
journal Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences
found that snake scales are for
more than just good looks scales
act like a kind of hop to help
snake slither across surfaces
researchers previously assumed
that scales help snakes move
across rough surfaces like rocks
and tree bark but the scales
can't even grasp onto smooth
surfaces and fine grains of sand
some snakes can move using just
their belly scales alone
big stakes like pythons and boa
constrictors can move in a
straight line just by lifting up
their undersides enough to grip
and push off the ground using
their scales this is called
rectilinear locomotion but for
other types of snakes it takes
more than just a few scales to
get from point A to point B
thanks have segmented muscles
that are made for slithering
allowing them to glide over a
surface and twisting or
oscillating motion the typical
snake slither you're familiar
with is called lateral
undulation where they move their
segment and muscles in a
specific sequential pattern this
wave-like motion propels the
snake forward in an s-shape when
the snake's body contact some
sort of fixed point like a rock
or depression and
ground the snake actually uses
this fixed point to kind of push
off and move forward if the
environment is lacking these
kinds of resistance . a snake
might use a sign widening motion
like the creatively named
Sidewinder this movement is
similar to lateral undulation
except well late sideways and
only two points of the snake's
body are touching the ground at
any time so it's an incredibly
fast way to get around in fact
it's reported that a sidewinder
can reach up to 18 miles per
hour
snakes can also climb trees
using what's called concertina
locomotion they stretch out
their heads and scrunch up their
bodies behind them kind of like
an accordion unlike lateral
undulation their muscles are
moved all the ones rather than
in a sequence almost makes use
more than one of these forms of
movement the coolest example of
a snake is chrissy Opilio also
known as the flying snake these
things are not only able to
climb trees that can jump from
branch to branch according to a
study published in the journal
integrative and comparative
biology when Chris Opilio
readies itself for takeoff it
contorts its body into a
j-shaped before it thrusts up
from the branch to become
airborne in the area uses
lateral undulating motion to
stabilize itself and glide
gracefully before landing so
rather than being afraid of
snakes just marvel at how
freaking cool flying snakes are
even though many snakes are
harmless to humans are pair of
them remain strong why are we
still afraid of snakes
Amy finds out in this episode
right here i am creeped out that
they have no arms or legs that
they do that slippery move thing
and let's not forget that some
of them have fangs dripping with
poison snake venom is terrifying
alright guys how you feel about
snakes are you terrified of them
where do you think they're
terrific let me know down in the
comments below don't forget to
hit those like and subscribe
button so you don't miss a
single dnews episode